today's event is a testament to the
power of collaboration determination and
achievement in our shared mission to
cure
cancer from nfcr all of you here in this
room to people around the globe we have
demonstrated our Collective passion
persistence and the commitment to
helping cancer patients in the US and
around the world we have momentum in our
Movement we must keep it
going so to kick off tonight's
program I am honored to present a
trailblazing physician scientist
renowned author and a p leer Prize
winner Dr soda
[Applause]
mukui Dr Dr asra razza Who is a
long-term collaborator with Dr mukui
another esteemed physician scientist and
um best author was supposed to be here
and she wanted to be here so much but
she had a last minute emergency so I end
up doing the job of of introducing
s so S I won't be as a poetic as uh Ezra
but you can to have to put up with
me Dr uh Muki is one of those people you
want to have and you want to uh have it
for dinner party and get to know in your
life of Journey in your journey of
life he has many talents
a road
scholar a scientist and
oncologist and uh founders of more than
a dozen of Biotech oncolog um oncology
companies and as I said earlier the peer
Prize winner author probably everyone in
in this room have read his uh best no uh
best book um most famous book The
Emperor of all melodies if you haven't
read get a copy actually we have some
copies Dr M mukui will sign for
you and uh Dr mukii has other uh famous
books the sound of cell and jeans those
are also award-winning books and he
writes for the New York Times magazine
and The New Yorker one of my favorite
magazines and he is a native from uh
India and Dr Muki
received get get ready to hear this Dr
Muki received his bachelor degree from
Stanford
University and was a road scholar as I
mentioned from the University of
Oxford and had two residents at Harvard
Medical School actually got to the
medical school degree from Harvard
medical school and had a residency at
MGH and then Dana Barber and now he is a
associate professor at the University
Colombia which school you haven't been
to looks like he probably doesn't need a
sleep the best of all he's nfc's one of
the teams collaborating team teams
working on early detection and uh early
intervention so let me present you Dr
[Applause]
mukui it's an immense pleasure to be
here here I am among friends and I'm
among old colleagues people have known
for not 5 years not 10 years but 20
years and it's really quite
amazing to see how our field is evolving
and continues to evolve um towards
prevention treatment and
cure
um I want to talk a little bit today
about what I think about V visions of a
medical future in cancer um this is
going to be a very broad ranging talk um
I will occasionally ask people to stand
up because um I think it's very
important to recognize in this audience
people who are fundamentally important
in our
ecosystem and in the ecosystem of
finding cures for patients with cancer
so when I ask you to stand up please do
so don't be hesitant because you need
the Applause that is deserved um to
you
um um when my book was when my first
book was
published um there was a beautiful
review by Steven shapen a great
historian of science who wrote that um a
world in which cancer is
normalized as a manageable chronic
condition would be a Wonder wonderful
thing but a risk factor World in which
we all think of ourselves as precancer
would
not this is a very complex statement and
I've thought about it a lot because it
means that all of us as we age
become in some ways
precancerous and therefore a world in
which the worried well as someone has
put it is Con constantly thinking about
what the next Frontier of cancer for
them is is a world that we don't want to
live
in um how do we avoid that world we
avoid that World by
providing real medicines and real
preventative mechanisms for people
who enter the precancerous universe
because then they're not worried they
may not be well but they're not worried
about not being will we find mechanisms
to remove them away or to take away from
them the
anxiety of
cancer
and if there's one thing that connects
my speech
today it is
about what we can do to remove the
anxiety of cancer psychologically
socially culturally
spiritually and of course
medically and Steven shapen continued uh
that world might decrease the incidence
of some forms of
malignancy while hugely increasing the
numbers of healthy people under medical
treatment and it would be a strange
Victory
indeed in which the price to be paid for
checking the spread of cancer through
the body is its uncontrolled spread to
our
culture I really want us to think about
that last line because as we move more
and more towards a world in which we
remove cancer from our bodies we move
towards a world and I really strongly
believe in cancer prevention and early
detection a world in which this
uncontrolled spread through our culture
becomes important and so we need new
mechanisms and new ways of thinking
about
cancer where we do not think about it so
much as a deadly end to our lives but as
a normal process of aging and a process
by which that that can be controlled
caught and hopefully eliminated from our
lives before it takes control of
everything that we
do and
so at the most at the highest level I
want to tell you about a few major
points number one is that we are
beginning to understand cancer at a
cellular and molecular level there's no
doubt about that there are people in
this audience again I'll ask you to
stand at the right moment when we
understand cancer at the cellular and
molecular
level that understanding has lighted
highlighted certain things number one
that there's an enormous diversity of
cancer at individual levels this is not
something to be scared of this is
something to embrace to understand it is
a fact of life it is a fact of cancer
and that as we move along to the
enormous diversity of cancer individual
levels we need to devise individual
treatments um this diversity May
demand Precision medicines or partially
individualized
therapies they there are two caveats to
the statement I said May demand and
partially individualized therapies and
by that I mean that there are some
commonalities in cancer that we're we're
using
to develop therapies and there are some
distinctive aspects so in other words a
woman with breast cancer may
share many features that are common with
another woman with breast cancer and she
may also have some things that are
unique to her and finding those
distinctions and
differences is the wisdom of Medical
Science you may
realize that this what I'm talking about
is the wisdom of human beings finding
our distinctive characteristics and
finding how we differ from each
other is the wisdom of
life and so cancer in fact is giving us
a reflection of the wisdom of our own
lives that we are together regardless of
where we come from but we are also
separate and individual because we have
distinctive features and that's that
that's an important piece of wisdom that
cancer is teaching us even if we don't
like it um it is the reality of what our
lives
are um
secondly um we are increasingly aware of
the idea that early treatments are
likely to bring benefits um and so
somewhat in synthesis if we could detect
early and treat precisely the two points
I made before we are likely to be themes
in the medical future of
cancer the one thing to be careful about
and always warn about people that as we
detect early and treat early and as we
treat
precisely we enter a world of
surveillance diagnosis and treatment
that carries cultural burdens that we
are yet unprepared to make and I will
rely on people who are not doctors here
they may be doctors but who who are not
only doctors here people who are in the
journalistic profession people who are
legal Scholars people who are Scholars
of medicine people who are Scholars of
anthropology to remind us that this is a
world that we are totally unprepared for
and to prepare us for this world and we
need help from you
too um I'll start with a little bit of
History because history is interesting
to me um this is the first document
that uh we ever know that U is a history
of cancer this is the edin Smith Papyrus
it happens to be one of the oldest human
documents of cancer and it talks about a
mass in the breast is dense as a heat
fruit
um in this hieroglyph there is also a
very dismal statement that there is no
treatment that's not true
today it is not true that there is no
treatment today there is treatment but
this was um this is from 4,000 years ago
and it is a it's it's a reminder that
cancer is not a disease of modern times
it's a disease of ancient times and it
is just that we have begun to detect it
we have begun to understand it in ways
that we hadn't uh done either
before um people often ask me where the
word cancer comes from um it was Gail
and who used the word uh
cancer um as um the metaphor of the crab
no one exactly Knows Why um some people
think that it was the a cancer buried
under the scrin skin that looked like
the a crab buried under sand some people
think that it has to do with the pain
that caused that's caused by
cancer um but nonetheless Galen used the
word of the metaphor of the CRA crab
kinos and that metaphor stuck we are
still using that metaphor for cancer
often without knowing why and often
without knowing exactly what we convey
to patients when we use the word cancer
often patients will ask me why why do we
what's the word cancer mean and I tell
them the entire history I tell them the
meaning the future meaning and I tell
them that it is nothing some it's not
something to worry about because that
meaning changes is just like all
meanings and words change over
life um we move on to Vera many years
later um and Vera was the first
person um to understand cancer as the
Betrayal of the self this is the word
that these are the words that he used um
Vera was a great scientist I've profiled
him in two of my
books um Vera um had many roles in life
uh but perhaps one of the most important
roles was that he was the first person
to begin to think about cell biology he
was a cell biologist at heart long
before he was a cancer biologist in fact
he was not even recognized as a cancer
biologist but verow began to think about
C about the idea that cells came from
all cells there were lots of theories
before verow about how cells arose
people thought they arose from
uh uh phenomenological things um they
came about as ations of
crystals but workhouse said cells only
arose from Crystal uh from prior cells
omnis cellular it cellular uh very
important phrase in workhouse
writings now if that's true then the
consequence is also true which is that
if all cells come from cells and only
from other cells
cells can only give birth to cells then
it must be true that a cancer cell came
from a normal
cell think about that for a normal for a
second that means that something must
have happened to a normal cell some
process must have happened to a normal
cell to transform it into a cell that no
longer
obeys the
laws the boundaries of normal cell
division and thereby causes cancer
that process eventually be began to be
known as transformation transformation
because a cell had now transformed
itself into a cell that is was no longer
able to carry out its normal cell
division and
invade in a malignant way invade tissues
and cause cancer so in some ways even
without knowing it that simple statement
of the the arise of cells from normal
cells created the entire field of
oncology I want to point this out
because I think there are many basic
researchers in this
audience and many of these basic
researchers make statements about cell
biology genetics
Etc it's very important for many of
these basic researchers to understand
that what you do in life what you
understand in life may have nothing to
do with cancer but will eventually
almost always impact cancer and that is
because cancer is a disruption of the
basic biology of normal cells so this is
the first standout call if you happen to
work on the basic biology cell biology
biochemistry of cells stand up please
because I'd like to recognize you if no
one applauds I will
applaud stand
[Applause]
up thank
you and I'd like to say
that I'd like to add that Albert sori
was not a cancer
biologist he made many discoveries in
metabolism in vitamins in mitochondrial
development Etc but in every single way
that's one way that you recognize the
fact that if you're working on the basic
science of cells you are a Cancer
biologist whether you like it or whether
you
don't all right the first attempt then
to extricate cancer out of cells was
Surgical and so why not it makes total
sense if you have a malignant cell that
cell is spread
um why not take it out why not cut it
out this is William Stewart Halstead
performing his famous halad
mastectomy the halate mastectomy has a
very complicated history it was a it was
a theory that was very correct and very
wrong very correct in the sense that he
HED understood that in order to cure
cancer you'd have to take the cancer out
of the body very wrong in the sense that
halad thought that that the more cancer
you took out of the body at one
particular time the more likely you were
supposed to cure
cancer um there's a long history of this
in my book I won't go into in great
detail but just to remind you that
hellstead was a very important figure in
all of this um he was also a cocaine
addict um but um but all of this said um
heead was um was very seminal in
understanding
how and why you can use um surgical
therapy and as a I would say and as an
extension radiological therapy um to
cure cancer and he was the first person
to understand that cancer begins as a
local
disease one cell
transformed becoming malignant and
ultimately spreads into a systemic
disease so if you happen to be a surgeon
regardless of what discipline of surgery
you're in um can I please ask you to
[Applause]
[Music]
stand thank
you all right um and then in the 1950s
people began to recognize that just
removing a local cancer would not be
sufficient and what are other example to
use than a cancer where there is no
local therapy but blood cancers blood is
present throughout the
body uh blood moves throughout the body
um and so this is the beginning of U
what we now called chemotherapy chemical
therapy in which you send a chemical
through the whole body and try to create
um kill the cells that are dividing this
is a picture of Robert and um iot
Sandler and I'm going to tell you a nice
story um about this um I was writing my
first book um and I'm very interested in
writing books as a series of stories I
don't believe in writing dactic books um
and
so I was in search of the first patient
the first child who reached who who
received chemotherapy for acute
lymphoblastic leukemia will come back to
this picture in in my later
slides and I came up to a dead end I
looked and looked and looked through
libraries I spent hours and hours and
hours in libraries
um and I could find nothing and then I
went back to my my home in India um I
was very dejected trying to write my
book and someone said uh you know what
if um why don't you go visit a
historian who lived a few blocks down
from my house and so one evening I took
a stroll I went to visit this historian
and this historian as I finished
my afternoon tea he said oh by the way
you know I was in The Dana Farber
Institute with Sydney Farber in 1950 I
said
really remember this is Delhi not
Boston and he said oh and I kept a whole
file of all his
patients and I said
really and he said oh yeah if you look
on the top
shelf and I was coughing because it was
so dusty um you'll find a file and sure
enough in that file was a picture of
this
child and that child is Robert Sandler
he's patient zero the first patient to
receive chemotherapy for acute
lymphoblastic lukemia he didn't live
long but he had a remission and that
remission was the first Miss that's
spurred the idea that you could use
chemicals and Biologicals to treat
cancer now you'll notice that this is
not one picture there's one child but
there's a second child here I didn't
know that it turns out that this child
had a twin an identical
twin that has so many consequences for
the biology of cancer it's I'm not going
to spend a lot of time on that but years
later when I my book got got
finished um I got a phone call in my
office from a someone I didn't
know and this is Elliot Sandler
today he had walked into a bookstore he
lives in Maine he'd walked into a
bookstore and found a book think about
this for a second found a book dedicated
to his own
twin and somehow or the other found a
way to contact
me and told me the entire story my story
was incomplete without him and that's
how I got to know the entire story
that's the story in the book of Robert
and Elliot Sandler and um this is a
picture from Ken Burn's movie about my
book um and that's a picture of Elliot
Sandler and we still communicate once in
a while and he reminds me that it's very
important um to write histories because
these histories become stories and these
stories Inspire Generations
um one of the most beautiful things my
book got lots of
reviews I would say mostly
positive um
and I don't care about those reviews
that much but the most beautiful review
that I ever got for my book was Elliot
Sandler's mother Helen Sandler the
mother of these
twins um had begged Sydney Farber of the
Dana Farber Cancer Institute to not
perform an autopsy on the child she had
said that it's a desecration of his life
I just don't want this final desecration
I want this child to be
whole and Sydney Farber had begged her
and said please it's the only way
science learns is if we perform an
autopsy if you understand what went
right and what went
wrong and she finally relented and she
agreed to the
autopsy and the most beautiful review of
my book was a small letter
three lines of
email from Helen Sandler who
said that I finally feel
relieved that that autopsy was performed
because I felt that I contributed to
science most beautiful thing I've ever
heard in my
life we fast forward many years forward
we go back to the idea of transformation
so what is
transformation um this is the work done
by Harold vares Mark Bishop
rste lots of people um who figured out
the big problem of how a normal cell
becomes a cancer cell and to just remind
you there were four competing
theories the first theory was that it
was
heredity and a Brazilian scientist this
this shows you the International Quality
of this colle collaboration and this is
why of course nfcr is important
especially in its International
Reach This is Hilario duvia who argued
that heredity was important because he
had seen he had a form of eye cancer we
now know caused by a gene called
retinoblastoma across Generations so
Hilaria dejia said it must be
genetics um long before Juvia there was
a English surgeon named peral
pot who saw that chimney sweeps young
chimney sweeps had a high incidence of
cancer and he traced it down to their
exposure to chimney
suit and p po said it said that must be
the
environment it couldn't be had to be the
most obvious
answer we knew that there was chance
because there were families in there was
no Cancer all of a sudden there would be
a woman or man with
cancer and an American scientist named
pton Rouse won the Nobel Prize for
showing that viruses could cause
cancer so how could we resolve this what
I call the four men in the elephant
problem there four different completely
different theories viruses edity
environment and
chance and the answer lay again
in
this which is to say that genetics was
the center of all of this that
ultimately whether it was viruses
heredity environment or chance all four
of these altered the genes in cells
these genes control cell
division these genes control other
qualities that ultimately lead to cell
division and the capacity for a cell to
become abnormally dividing is ultimately
what causes cancer so that was I would
say the first crack at the
theory we we'll go deeper into this
shortly but what were
genes the first thought was there was
one gene then there were two genes there
were five genes there were 10 genes Etc
and then the Human Genome Project came
along and then the cancer Genome Project
came along people often say well what's
the use of the Human Genome Project and
I say the most useful thing the Human
Genome Project has reduced is the cancer
Genome Project so what is the cancer
Genome Project
done this is a
picture of U very W very uh
schematically of a patient whose whole
genome has been printed on a sheet of
paper her first Gene is here it becomes
like a snake goes up and down up and
down up and down her last Gene is here
and let's say there are 20,000 21,000
odd genes plus of course all the
intergenic spaces so about three billion
base Paris in
old and she happens to have breast
cancer and in her case there are 1 2 3 4
5 six seven eight genes that are
mutated another patient with breast
cancer comes in and Denny I'm getting to
you now
soon and she has a different set of
genes some common and some
different her breast cancer looks
exactly the
same some genes are the same some genes
are different some genes are inherited
some genes are mutated by
chance we still we're still trying to
figure out which ones are which here's a
third patient with breast cancer and
again you see the same pattern some
commonalities and some
differences and therefore you can draw a
map with big Peaks and small Peaks the
big Peaks here represent
very commonly mutated genes the ones
that I showed you were common the small
Peaks represent the more Uncommon ones
the really short Peaks represent
completely unique Fingerprints of a
breast cancer that are not present in
any other person but in one individual
only and this looks this is what cancer
this is what the landscape of cancer
looks like and people have a very hard
time understanding this
idea again I said before cancer is
something that is unique to individuals
and yet is common be between
individuals and here is that same idea
now scientifically depicted in a
map of course we can find mechanisms by
which Sorry by which we can attack the
cancer what's really interesting and
what's emerged right now is that these
genes are not genes in isolation they're
not sitting there as big Peaks but in
fact they communicate with each other
like a
network and I often liken this to a
machine in which the machine the purpose
of this this is a cell the purpose of
this machine is to ultimately perform
multiple
functions it has to live it has to
metabolize it has to respire but it also
has to divide if in case it is a
dividing
cell and each of these modules is not
one gene but is a collection of genes a
network of
genes and in many cases there might be a
hub maybe here maybe here maybe here
maybe here where a gene is mutated and
is driving one part of the machine
incorrectly and as a result of that the
entire machine begins to malfunction I
call this the malignant Network theory
of cancer it's not one single Gene
that's mutated but a network of gen
genes that's mutated and
therefore sometimes attacking a single
Gene successful but sometimes attacking
the entire malignant Network may be
necessary and now we come to some
successes so this is um the story and I
purposely put this in of
herceptin herceptin is one such Gene
that sits right at the center of one
such malignant Network it drives the
growth
of breast cancer cells where that Gene
is mutated
Amplified and it was Denny slamman who
recognized that that was the case he
identified it not the only person but he
was the leader in the
field and Denny you might recognize this
patient this is Barbara Bradfield this
is a picture that I took by the
way um this woman is Maybe
could this be true the longest
Survivor of U breast cancer diffusely
metastatic her two positive breast
cancer and this is her holding up her
you may like this picture holding up her
her first dose of her
septin um she had if I remember
correctly 17 16 17 diffused metastasis
in her
lung and um she had given up her life
and she was almost convinced that she
would never enroll in another trial she
was going to go to Mexico and drink
juices but Denny called her not once but
twice maybe three times convinced her to
be in the trial and here she is um still
alive the last time this picture was
taken and still flourishing from her
treatment with her septin what a what an
incredible idea Denny stand up
[Applause]
please
um and in the wake of Denny any of you
who work in breast
cancer please stand up and be
recognized Dr
Ola I see everyone
so thank
you um this is the first trial uh of
women with metastatic breast cancer with
and without herceptin these are
so-called cap Meer curves curves of
death as you die you fall off the
curve um obviously with no herceptin you
die off much faster with herceptin you
die off much slower this proved the idea
that herceptin was a power powerful
medicine that could stop the growth and
the death of patients with breast cancer
but then something more interesting
happened and this is in my second and
third book which is that we began to
combine her septin with early detection
so we said why not take patients and by
we I mean the whole community of
oncologists said why not take her septin
in the setting when patients are already
diffusely colonized with breast cancer
but why I take patients who are herto
positive her
septin uh uh her two which is a target
Gene positive and ask the question what
if we gave these patients
early um treatment so this is her septin
this is a pivotal trial published in the
new journ of medicine on the left side
you see again these Klan Meer curves of
patients with
uh her septin
tusab um and obviously you can see that
there's a big difference between
patients treated versus not treated this
was known this was reestablished
wonderful
news here's more important news in some
ways these are patients who have just
been
detected having lesions that are her to
positive and given her septin after
their tumors have been removed they have
no visible signs of a
tumor but they're still treated with
herceptin because of the possibility
that their tumor has spread outside the
breast and they're given her
septin along with other therapies now
and the difference between this is that
the number 90% is
important and five
years get this straight
90% of
women with her two positive early
detected breast cancer that has been
surgically and radiologically
managed given her septin therapy are
alive and flourishing not alive and
dying but alive and flourishing at 5
years and now at 10 years
and I liken this this result I liken
this to the Cure of acute lymphoblastic
leukemia I liken this to the Advent of
antibiotics this is a result as
significant in the history of human
therapy as any in
medicine and so thank you for bringing
this the entire community
obviously Denny
included all right so I'm sorry the
slide doesn't read very well but I'm
just going to read it quickly but what
I'm trying to say is here is that we're
getting to a paradigm in which we if we
could detect
early in this case with her septin in
this case with her two positive breast
cancer if we could personalize and if we
could do targeted therapy that we would
achieve a new kind of Paradigm of cancer
therapy
and all three of these are important
this is a a triangle that we're trying
to
achieve and so another way to think
about this going back to my first quote
about how we think about this socially
culturally
phenologically is to think about cancer
as a disease of mitigated risk how do we
reduce those at risk how do we identify
those at risk how do we detect early how
do we detect those likely to progress
how do we detect how do we treat with
the most effective least toxic therapy
and how do we maintain response and
remission and each of these I try to
divide into three categories because
three groups of s people think
differently and three very accomplished
groups of scientists are moving in all
three
directions so how do we detect those at
risk of course there's an old way we
used to ask questions about history
exposure and heredity
now we go from this is a breast cancer
it's a family with breast
cancer and we now go to genetics more
and more so this is the new genetics of
breast cancer it's no longer restricted
to just braa one and bracka two we
detect early by asking a very deep
question about exposure about history
but most importantly about genetics
these are patients who are braa 1 and
braa 2 negative
but have a history of breast cancer in
their family they were called bracka 3
in quotes because there was not one gene
it turns out there are dozens of genes
and we can now find
them if you have a history of breast
cancer in your
family go see a genetic counselor
because the genetic counselor may be
able to advise you about whether your
history is genetic and if that history
is genetic may be able to tell you how
this ignore the details of the slide but
about how to manage your risk in the
future so the question is how do we
detect early we detect early through a
detailed history of exposure a detailed
history of risk and most importantly a
detailed genetic history some of which
can be done by Gene
sequencing how do we detect early in
other diseases I'm not only talking
about breast cancer this is a friend of
mine um who who unfortunately died of
melanoma will
Kiri
um and um in his case we were able to
detect his primary lesion using
AI so um this is an AI module published
by Stanford University in which 500,000
not the number
500,000
lesions were classified as benign versus
malignant
based on characteristics that we don't
understand but based on characteristics
that an algorithm
understands and amazingly enough this
performs better than any
dermatologist and it is an incredibl
Testament to what we're going that we
can now detect early not only using
genetics but using biology using Ai and
other mechanisms
next question is who's likely to
progress how do we know who's who's um
who's likely to move
forward um if you happen to work on the
transition I do between precancer to
cancer dcis to breast
cancer uh MDS to leukemia please stand
up I know you're there somewhere Nelly
[Applause]
thank you so who progresses and how do
we stop that progression what are the
markers of
progression um how do we understand that
again extremely important because we if
we could halt that progression we could
change um the way people
progress and finally how do we treat
with the most effective least toxic
therapy and how do we maintain responses
and remission
so I'll end with my own work um but I'll
call out people as we finish this
work um the first thing I'd like to say
is we talk about immunotherapy lung
cancer and melanoma everyone knows this
this is now a classic story um
immunotherapy has revolutionalized
cancer therapy we now recognize that
it's not just the
tumor it's not the genetics of the tumor
but things that happen outside the tumor
that are important and of course um this
is the pivotal trial for melanoma which
recognized that immune the immune system
is one of the mechanisms not the only
but one of the mechanisms by which
cancer can be controlled this is the
case of melanoma we know that this is
the case of lung cancer as well and now
more and more
cancers um I'll talk I'll finish up with
talking about I talked about three
themes I'll talk about three themes in
my own work um
most recently
uh
uh I have a strange new um thing going
on in my life is that I've launched a
project with um
Microsoft and AI um to test in silico
and by that by that I mean in in a
computer
um per single
Target 10 B
million drugs that have been created by
the computer people often say they they
forget the word 10
billion 10 billion is a very large
number um it takes us one week if we
have a good Target to test 10 billion
drugs um it would
take dozens of years to test 10 billion
drugs we don't know if these are can be
synthesized we don't know if they can be
made but there's still 10
billion um this is the pipeline you
don't have to care about the pipeline
but you have to care about this in Gray
is the target protein it doesn't matter
this happens to be one target protein in
blue and yellow and white are candidate
chemicals out of 10
billion this is a
sampling which have been docked onto the
active site of that MO
molecule and we know the exact
energetics we know the synthesis pathway
for all 10 billion of them and they're
moving around because our chemists want
to look to see if they're real or not so
once they come out of that
pipeline um and every campaign tests
about 10 billion and we can do these for
small molecules and we can do this for
antibodies like herceptin we can do this
for a iety of small molecule
combinations so um what we're going to
see in the next Dozen Years is that the
FDA is going to be very very very
busy um which is a good thing um I
trained one of the folks who works at
the FDA USA I don't think I taught you
anything um I just taught you to be busy
so uh yha you're going to be very busy
because um we are generating on a weekly
basis um tens of thousands of candidates
now the work doesn't end there we have
to go into animal models we have to do
PR a preclinical package this is this is
I would say in silico work it's not
fictional but still it's early work but
again every time we launch 10 billion
chemicals this is a a second uh trial
that I'm involved in um this is a
fascinating trial in which we combine
and we can talk about it later we
combine gene therapy with
um with uh uh immunological therapy for
acute myogenous leukemia AML used to be
the most lethal or one of the most
lethal of all cancers people talk about
pancreatic cancer AML is one of the most
lethal of all
cancers um
with the help of Raju Raju stand
up um I created a new way of treating
AML completely outside what is
known um we use crisper to delete a
gene so that the cells of a person
become immune to a toxic therapy
and only the cancer cells remain
sensitive and this trial the first
patients are now out two two years or
two and a half years and it is widely
recognized as the most single most
successful therapy against AML in trial
today all right I'll give you a third
one and this has This concerns
economics I started a company in
India despite everyone telling me not to
do so called immunal
barma um to make CTI therapy accessible
for patients with
alll uh acute lymphoblastic those very
same children Robert Sandler Elliot
Sandler the cost of C therapy in the
United States all in including
hospitalization was about
$600,000
um I I argued that it should be oneth of
that and possibly 12 12th of that so we
now are making we created a fully
integrated GMP facility in one year by
the way during covid this was made
during
covid um and we are now offering this at
about 1110th the cost moving towards
12th the cost um
[Applause]
um this is patient zero I didn't I took
the mask off him because he is now
publicly known this is patient zero
alive today with uh relapsed
all and we have about 30 patients one1
the cost and 80% patients cured of
all so um very soon
um we're hoping that you wouldn't go by
the way our list of patients we have
about one a population of about 1 two
billion people our list of patients with
alll is about 10 times the number of
patients that we can possibly
treat um we're treating patients from
North Africa we're treating patients
from the Gulf region we're opening a
center in Saudi Arabia opening a center
in Dubai because
I'm afraid to
say although the United States has
remained the center for scientific
innovation it is no longer the Center
for Clinical
Innovation and
unless organizations like nfcr exist and
step up we will lose our capacity to
become the Center for Clinical
innovation and that will be an
incredibly sad thing we should lament
that so deeply because if we do
not Remain the Center for Clinical
Innovation we will have lost our
position in the world as the central
disseminator of clinical information I'm
really sorry to say that we recruited
this trial in 12 months I tell people it
would have taken 30 years for us to do
this trial in the United States
now to finish up there are people who
often complain that you know the emperor
maladi is came came to a stop somewhere
and that's because that's what we knew
then I'm writing a new edition which
will have three or four more chapters
which will add to the new things
immunotherapy wasn't there our
understanding of the role of micro
environment wasn't there the organism
the host the tissue microbiome immune
system things that I call outside the
tumor people call them
micro environment and other things and
I'll end with
this which is look um this is a famous
New Yorker cover about how people think
about New York they think about New York
as 9th Avenue 10th Avenue and the rest
of the world in Far Away places we have
to change that thinking there's cancer
there was a
genome this was what this was where we
were in the 199s and early 2000s and it
has brought us incredible
therapies but there's a world out side
there cells there's the micro
environment there's patient host
microbiome metabolism going back to
Albert
sanori and so a more holistic way but
not a fuzzy way but a more holistic way
of thinking about cancer is to
incorporate all of this and to
understand all of this as we move
forward in the future and there's a
great new mechanism by which we can
understand all this so to as my final
point of
recognition if you happen to work not on
the cancer genome but on the cells the
micro environment metabolism patient
host and the microbiome stand up
because you will be
likely the scientists of the future
because that's where our world is
going and with that I would like to end
Again by by uh re quoting uh Steven
shapen a world in which cancer is
normalized as a manageable chronic
condition would be a great
thing it might decrease the incidence of
some forms of malignancy while hugely
increasing the number of healthy people
under medical treatment it would be a
strange victory in which the price to be
paid for checking the spread of cancer
through the body is its uncontrolled
spread through our culture and our job
as
Physicians as stewards of the medical
space is to prevent exactly that is to
find a world in which we
can simultaneously prevent cancer treat
cancer but not allow it to spread in a
malignant
way through our societies and cultures
such that it becomes the
preoccupation of our lives but rather
becomes something that we think think
about when we think about ourselves as
ill but we also think about ourselves as
creative individuals that can conquer
something that is so important to
society and to our cultures thank you
very much and congratulations to NFC